the election is going to be decided
based on who presents a more
aspirational vision of masculinity and
what you have on the far right is this
vision of being provocative aggressive
speaking your mind the far left their
vision of masculinity is be more like a
woman and if any of them resonates it's
the right that could swing the entire
election what happens to America if
Trump wins are you scared of that
America Scott Galloway is back giving
his objective No Nonsense analysis on
what the upcoming US election means for
the future of America and the world
objectively what has Trump done well
he's unpredictable look I publicly
endorse vice president Harris one of the
things I hate about my party quite
frankly is we become humorless
everything's offensive and people are
just so sick of that and then he showed
up and started saying these really
offensive things that felt raw and felt
authentic and really appealed to people
and then if you go to the Democratic
party's website there's a section that
says who we serve and it lists 16
demographic groups but not one mention
of group that has fallen furthest in the
United States and that's young men three
out of four homeless people are men
three times as likely to kill themselves
12 times as likely be incarcerated and
yet they're fighting for everyone except
for them but they feel seen by the
Republican party and Trump even though
under Trump will probably have the
largest tax increase in history on young
people and that has a lot of unfortunate
ramifications and I don't think young
men realize this who do you think is
going to win I'll tell you what I'm
doing this afternoon I'm going to bet
$358,000 on
this has always blown my mind a little
bit 53% of you that listen to the show
regularly haven't yet subscribe to the
show so could I ask you for a favor
before we start if you like the show and
you like what we do here and you want to
support us the free simple way that you
can do just that is by hitting the
Subscribe button and my commitment to
you is if you do that then I'll do
everything in my power me and my team to
make sure that this show is better for
you every single week we'll listen to
your feedback we'll find the guest that
you want me to speak to and we'll
continue to do what we do thank you so
much Scott what are you thinking about
at the moment I'm thinking that I've
been on this thing four times and I
didn't get a jacket and that you used to
send this fat van with for me with these
lights and music and a little fridge and
today you sent me this Joey Bag of
Donuts Uber really I feel like your side
piece at year have kind of taken for
granted that's what I'm thinking about
the nice car will take you home after
he's outside appreciate it what am I
thinking about um well we're on the
precipice of a uh what feels like an
important election every election people
say that in the
US the thing I can't get over I just got
back from the US is how tense it is
political parties used to be these
organizations that tried to grow their
membership through policy arguments now
they've become these quasy religions
that attempt to sanctify your beliefs
and it feels like we're in a bit of a
holy war I couldn't get over how tense
and quite frankly how ugly it feels uh
in the US I was at a fundraiser
last Saturday night in Miami actually
just south of Palm Beach I was talking
about team mental health and someone
yelled out Trump
2024 which inspired someone else on the
other side of the room to start booing
and we're talking about Teen Mental
Health things are so polarized uh in the
US so I'm I'm anxious um and it feels
like the US despite all of its blessings
is kind of coming apart from the inside
it feels very polarized and very ugly
right now in the US that's what I'm
thinking about every election cycle in
the US people say that this is the most
important election of our history this
is the most important election of our
time do you believe that do you believe
that this one's important I would argue
this one's more important I don't like
the catastrophizing from both sides each
side would have you believe that it's
the end of the the end of America if the
other side wins which doesn't which
lacks historical context because the US
has endured I would argue much worse
than him or her regardless of what you
believe and America's actually doing
quite well our institutions you know
America's going to be around in four
years regardless of who wins I believe
it does seem pretty consequential though
because this issue around bodily
autonomy is a pretty big deal whereas
bodily autonomy has all headed towards a
woman's right to determine her own
bodily autonomy you know in Mexico in
you know Poland I mean
there distinct of a few Nations almost
every nation has gone one way and that's
towards granting people more rights and
in the US it's the first time we've
taken a right away so that feels that
feels like a pretty big deal and also we
have an individual who has never
conceded the election so this notion of
the peaceful transfer of power being
pretty Central to democracy but at the
same time if people vote for an autocrat
that's their Democratic right and so if
America decides to go that way it's
going to feel
pretty odd I think and obviously I'm I
should put up front I'm I publicly
endorse vice president Harris you know
perfect not on the menu she would not
have been my choice for the Democratic
nominee but it does feel strange that we
are so
polarized and it's sort of a uh it feels
like an election between who America
thinks would be less bad what are all
the like macro pieces here that have
come together to create this sort of
storm that we find ourselves in because
I think of some of them I think about
the role that Elon buying Twitter played
in this I think about um you know Andrew
Tate's rise in culture I think about um
the economic backdrop of what's going on
um and all these pieces you know then
Biden and then the the inflation issues
because of like covid and the stimulus
Che all of these pieces what are those
pieces that you think are most pertinent
that have landed us in a situation where
as we sit here you know with the
election happening tomorrow in America
it's looking likely that Trump is going
to win if you look at some of the the
odds but also young men in particular
have for the first time in the last you
know couple of decades really seem to
have abandoned the Democratic party and
have gone for Trump what are those macro
pieces well there's a lot there so first
off there's some dissonance between the
perception people have called it a Vibe
session and that is if you look at the
economic data it's strikingly different
than the perception
uh the majority of Americans think that
America's headed in the wrong direction
and usually that has something to do
with the economy since
um I think it's 2019 the American
economy has grown 12 and a
half% uh that's double of any G7
nation in 2009 our stock market was a
third of the total market capitalization
of all stocks globally now it's half
Nvidia is worth more than the entire
German stock market China has shed
several trillion dollars in market cap
over the Last 5 Years America has added
several trillion dollars we're the
largest energy producer in the world I
mean the just the the economic there's
190 Sovereign nations in the world 189
would trade places with us if you take
our poorest state politicians always
talk about Mississippi because it's our
poorest state with the worst outcomes
the average household income in
Mississippi is greater than than it is
in the UK Germany or Japan so our poor
state is doing better than many of what
we would consider our competitors no
one's lining up for vaccines from Russia
or China or flying to Dubai or to soul
for AI software America on any objective
metric lowest unemployment historically
since
1968 it's just killing it the problem is
that Prosperity similar to what William
Gibson said about the future is here but
it's not evenly
distributed and you also have a lot of
disruption a lot of people who aren't
who feel like their way of life has been
undermined um you have a lot of people
who aren't doing as well as they used to
a lot of that Prosperity is crowded in
the top 1% an economist did a study and
said if you took out the top 1% of
American earners France has grown
household income faster than the US the
bottom 99 aren't doing as well but the
top one are doing so well
that quite frankly creates this illusion
of Greater Prosperity than there is so
for example we look at the Dow Jones and
the NASDAQ 1% of America owns 90% of the
stocks so the Dow Jones is really just
an indication or a metric on how the
wealthy are doing and spoiler alert the
wealthy have hit 76 new all-time highs
in the last year which is what has
happened in the market so you have this
fissure between perception and reality
but also a lot of people aren't doing as
well and 210 times a day on their phone
it's shoved in their face how well
everyone else is doing I think there's
also the fundamental breakdown in the
social compact in
America is that for the first time and
we've talked about this before a
30-year-old isn't doing as well as his
or her parents were at 30 and that not
only impacts the 30-year-old it impacts
his or her parents it creates rage and
shame uh one out of three young men is
living with their parents under the age
of 25 one and five are still living with
their parents at the age of 30 uh
there's an absence of connection at a
young age only one in three men has a
girlfriend under the age of 30 because
women are dating older because they want
more economically and emotionally viable
men people are opting out of America
especially young
people uh 40 years ago 60% of households
with a 30-year-old in it or 60% of
30-year-olds had at least one child now
it's 27% so the ultimate expression of
optimism in a society is you meet
someone and you decide to have kids and
so that optimism has been cut in half so
you have this consumer dissonance or
fissure between the economic reality and
what's going on because a lot of people
aren't doing well and the social media
algorithms love to pit people against
each other you have young people
especially not doing well the average
7-year-old is 72% wealthier than they
were 40 years ago the average person
under the age of 40 is 24% less wealthy
and when young people or your kids
aren't doing well it impacts absolutely
everybody and then I would say just
psychologically when you are making more
money at your job and now wage growth is
growing faster than inflation so
purchasing power is going up Prosperity
is going up in the
US when you get a raise you think it's
because of your character and your grit
but when the price of cial is up 40% in
The Last 5 Years you blame the
administration so you have social media
algorithms pinning us against each other
you have the political parties have
taken on sort of this religious like
feel where the other party is literally
the enemy young people not doing as well
all sort of overwhelm the notion that
America is the least bad in the world
right now economically on any metric
like I said every nation would kill out
of our problems I was just thinking as
you were speaking about this idea as of
perception versus reality and then you
mentioned algorithms and social media
and as you said that I thought to myself
you know what's interesting now that
algorithms and social media have made
our politicians more visible than ever
if you go back 50 years you only saw
them stood at the podium right making
the speech now you see them multiple
times a day if I scroll on Twitter X
whatever YouTube I see Trump doing 10
speeches a day I get to know him more
and I was wondering in this digital age
is personality now more important than
ever when I'm not just seeing you at the
podium I'm seeing you for three hours on
Rogan then two hours later I'm seeing
you in another state then I'm seeing you
on a clip I'm seeing you at McDonald's
and so the old politicians of the past
were very like straight mhm and you'd
see them on the podium how polished was
that speech now it's actually it seems
the algorithms are going for Loi
politicians and personality seems to be
more important than
principal yeah we've definitely replaced
politicians who were sort of pragmatists
and practitioners who used to go to
Congress and legislate and pass laws
we've replaced a lot of them with
performers yeah in the UK as well we've
just had a series of them you always got
to look at incentives and the person who
raises the most money is almost always
reelected and incumbent 92% re-election
rate despite the fact that Congress has
an 8% approval so the incentives are to
raise a lot of money and the easiest way
to raise kind of a lot of money of small
dollar donations it's actually easier
than trying to get money from a pack or
big money and the way you do that is you
say something fairly incendiary that
tickles the censors of your tribe by
making the other side look stupid you
say something it's Jewish space lasers
or Biden is a war criminal that up on
Tik Tok and the hard left or the hard
right see that and start sending in
money and so you have some of the most
famous
legislators in U US Congress have never
passed a bill but are outstanding at
getting on Tik Tok and raising a lot of
money so it's gone from politicians to
performers I was just thinking about
have I ever seen a boring politician on
go viral on Tik Tok and I've never I've
just never seen it I've never seen a
boring but even in the case you said
where if you say something in Century
it's both sides send you viral yeah
which is interesting well look at
Trump if he
says you know if he says um something
crazy that I'm going to protect women
whether they want it or not that goes
viral and then everyone including on my
podcast we're talking about it instead
of having a discussion about inflation
or if Trump gets into office his current
economic plan shows triple the deficits
of the Harris economic plan
that is essentially what we what we've
been able unable to do the left's been
unable to do is help young people
connect the dots that the deficit under
Trump will probably be ultimately the
largest tax increase in history on young
people because I'm not going to be
around we we're fine for the next 20 or
30 years probably because of our
creditworthiness and our ability to
borrow money but at some point shit's
going to get real and the Chinese or
foreigners are going to stop showing up
to buy our treasuries interest rates are
going to Skyrocket you'd have massive
inflation
and at some point you know that debt is
going to come due right um you know I
love that every lie is a debt and at
some point it comes due but we haven't
been able to connect the dots for young
people that these deficits will in fact
be attacks on young people because it's
a wonky boring conversation and we'd
rather talk about this outrageous thing
he said so these outrageous things
people say take oxygen out of the room
around any real discussion around policy
and in the US I don't know if it's same
way in the UK but politicians love their
jobs so they jerrym gerrymander every
District every congressional district is
very hard red or hard blue so we send
kind of the crazies from the far left
and the far right it's no longer the
general election it's the primary so
it's a war it's an election between
Republicans or an election between
Democrats so they all try to out outc
conservative or out Progressive each
other and we've sent a group of people
to to Congress who fundamentally have a
entirely different worldview you than
one another and also it's minority rule
in the US 20% of our population is 80%
of the senator senators and the majority
of Americans are somewhere in the middle
and that it does not describe their
representation so we have sort of
minority Rule now what has Trump done
well so if you were objectively
analyzing his ability to capture votes
and to get people to believe and come
with him what would you if you if this
was a marketing class and you had
marketing students in front of you and
they were trying to learn from him as to
how to Market their products in their
lives what would you say to them well
the the ultimate business strategy is
when everyone's barking up the same tree
when everyone's zigging you zag so I'll
just the notion that Amazon was the
biggest e-commerce company the model was
you own the consumer data you build the
biggest platform and then you slowly but
surely start increasing your take and
then Shopify comes in and says your
packaging your data I mean the opposite
of Amazon we're not about the customer
we're about you're the customer you're
the client you want to sell on our
platform you own everything we're just
here to service you they kind of zag um
that's the ultimate business strategy
when everyone's going way to go the
other for the last 40 or 50 years
politicians have been very
PG-13 trying to appeal to every group
worried about offending everybody and
people over time just felt like this
guy's really slick and makes me feel
good but he or she's lying to me and
then he showed up and started saying
these really offensive things that felt
raw and felt authentic and really
appealed to people like this guy's
unafraid he's telling it like it is and
he kind of tapped into this sort of
grievance and anger that had been
bubbling up and started saying these
really off-color things I'm going to ban
Muslims from entering the country and a
lot of people even if they don't believe
that said well you know he's not a
politic he wants to burn it down and he
doesn't like he he wants to burn down
his own party so he really tapped into
this authentic Zeitgeist of zagging
while everyone was zigging he he's
absolutely the most non-traditional
politician uh I think in person he is
charming um he's done a great job with
social media capturing attention you
know we're in an attention economy right
and he every day is in the news cycle
realizing that it's like Umberto Eko the
Italian philosopher said the new economy
is about being famous it doesn't even
matter what you're famous for and he's
captured that so he's comes across as
authentic unafraid Politically Incorrect
in a sea of political correctness that
kind of infected both sides he has great
political
instincts um so he's he's kind of zagged
why everyone was zigging and and people
found it refreshing and even if people
don't like him they a lot of people
under the impression that because he's a
business person I I think 40% of America
goes into the voting booth and just
votes on who they think will put more
money in their pocket full stop like
government's ineffective I just want
them out of my pocket and I think
correctly or incorrectly more Americans
believe that they'll have more money in
their pocket because he's a businessman
and will lower taxes even if we kick the
can down the road in terms of deficit
he's convinced Americans that he's
better on the economy than the
Democrats you watched him on Rogan the
other day I saw some of it that whole
strategy of getting out and doing the
podcast circuit I think is this is the
first election cycle where I've seen
podcasting becomes so important and that
Joe Rogan Trump moment I think is a real
defining moment in podcasting but also
like um political strategy what did you
think of that move you you're absolutely
right Stephen this so every election
brings a new medium to the Forefront the
Kennedy and TV
FDR and radio um Obama and Google uh
Trump and Twitter this will be the
election the podcast election because
the last time there was a presidential
race since the last presidential R race
cable TV is down 22% and podcasts are up
30% so by going on Joe Rogan 11 million
people 40 million people have seen that
on YouTube the average cable show gets
about a half a million a prime time
cable show gets about half a million
people so going on Rogan for Trump is
the equivalent or reaches the same
number of people as if he went on MSNBC
CNN and fox every night during prime
time for an hour every day for an entire
week he will reach more people going on
Rogan you might get 300,000 or 400,000
going on CNN maybe for 6 minute or 10-
minute or 20- minute interview so this
is definitely this the election of
podcasts they have become dominant I
would argue the seminal podcast was
actually uh vice president Harris going
on callor Daddy because not only would
did they not go on this medium they
wouldn't have gone on that type of
podcast but for a week the entire Z us
was talking about that podcast it wasn't
talking about her interview on Face the
Nation or it was talking about her on
this podcast so this is the election of
of the
podcaster for me as an objective
marketeer watching that Rogan interview
I thought that Trump's team did a master
stroke I thought it was yeah I thought
they I thought it was absolutely the the
perfect thing to do because absolutely
humanized Trump in a way softened him in
a way that I hadn't seen before and
funnily enough I won't name their name
but I know a lady who's um a very strong
feminist and is very anti-trump and it's
very liberal and she said she watched it
and the next day I said what did you
think of it and she said to me I burst
out laughing like 10 times he's so funny
he's a Charming guy what she said to me
and he talks about you know when he was
on The Apprentice and it softened him
made him seem more human which is what
he
needs um so it's a big mistake
occasionally I hear from the campaign
and they ask for advice and whenever a
campaign calls you and ask for advice
which campaign well I've the only people
who' ever contacted me on been the heris
side I got contacted by the Trump
campaign in the last cycle but not this
one I think they've figured out who I'm
supporting and whenever by the way I
want to be clear when they call you and
ask for advice that's Latin for please
send us money they I think they pretend
to care what you think uh so I don't
want to pretend that I'm having any sort
of influence but my one piece of advice
to anyone I can talk to who's remotely
linked to the Harris campaign is that
she get on a plane go to Austin and do
Rogan why is it in your view that men
are because you know Trump's assembled
this kind of this group of interesting
individuals to to be part of his
campaign from RFK to Elon to VC to Tulsi
gabbit now and and himself and this is
drawn in it seems like young men it
seems like a lot of the I actually did a
poll in my group chat the other day
three or four days ago so six men in
there and I pulled them I said who do
you want to win the election and four of
them said Trump my position actually
which I've not really ever Shar publicly
is that
I I see no great option oh Perfect's not
on the menu yeah I see no great option
so I'm like
and the the things that again I think a
lot about are the the war the wars that
are going around the world so ask myself
who will stop the wars and I think a
little bit about the economy and then
also from a selfish perspective think
about my ability to build businesses to
get visas in the US and those kinds of
things Y and I also think about women's
Reproductive Rights because I think
that's an issue that's quite close to my
heart but why are men choosing
Trump so this is an unusual election in
the sense that neither of these
candidates based on their metrics has
ever been elected before we've never had
since I think since maybe a Roosevelt
was it Roosevelt or Truman actually have
we had a president an incumbent party be
reelected when they're have less than a
50% approval so we've if Harris gets
elected it's a almost a firsttime
occurrence that an incumbent
Administration this unpopular gets
reelected Trump never cracked 50%
approval no no presidential candidate
who has never been above 50% has ever
been reelected so whoever wins it's un
it's an unprecedented election of
someone who typically does not get
reelected in terms of
men what you've seen is young men are
going more conservative young women are
going slightly more Progressive and that
has a lot of unfortunate ramifications
because again it's another reason why
young people are not getting together
and mating it's yet another reason not
to date somebody when I was your age I
was thinking about this when I was
dating for the life of me if I went
through every person I've dated in my
20s and 30s I don't remember what their
political affiliation was I didn't care
we didn't talk about about that it was
like you know are you fun I'm fun are
you attracting me I'm not you know like
let's go out let's drink let's do what
let's see where this goes didn't talk
about politics so it's a shame because
now politics is now kind of a gender
divide so it's having social
ramifications I would argue that young
men are not going to the Republican
Party they're actually less conservative
or people have this image of young men
that their Knuckles are dragging along
on the ground they actually are
almost as in favor of gender rights as
young women what I would argue is that
they're leaving the Democratic party
because if you go to the DNC the
Democratic party's website there's a
section that says who we serve click on
it and it says these are the
constituents in America that we serve
that we advocate for and at list 16
demographic groups ranging from um
Asians and Pacific Islanders the
disabled seniors black Americans um
veterans it goes through all of these
groups and I tried to add it up and I
think it adds up to 76% of the US
population but similar to kind of the
Dei apparatus on campus now or on
University campus is when you're
purposely advocating and trying to
Advantage 76% of the population you're
not advantaging 76% of the population or
advocating for them you're
discriminating against the
24% and that 24% are squarely one group
it's young men and if you look at the
Democratic National Convention it was a
parade of demographic groups but not one
mentioned the group that has fallen
furthest fastest in the United States
and that's young men families and young
men feel this right we don't have an
opioid or a homeless crisis in the
United States we have a male opioid and
a male homeless crisis three out of four
opioid three out of four homeless people
are men right three times as likely to
kill themselves 12 times as likely to be
incarcerated women under the age of 30
are now making more money than men more
single women own homes than single men
and by the way we should never do
anything to get in the way of that
that's a remarkable victory for us but a
lot of young men and their families feel
that they are these young men are really
struggling and they are not seen by the
Democratic party because the Democratic
party I would argue that our big failure
over the last 20 years is we've become
sort of these self-appointed cops of
social justice and have tried to tried
to lecture the nation on what is the
right social policy or behaviors and
that America has pretty squarely
rejected this um um the example I use is
the University of Michigan amazing
university has invested $150 million in
Dei social policy and the number of
complaints about racism is up 30 fold
the sentiment the feeling about America
has all gone down and so the Democrats
have decided where about social policy
as opposed to the economic policies that
are actually going to impact you and a
large part of America has sort of
rejected it young men do not feel seen
by the Democratic party and it's not
only just young men but it's their
families so I would argue it's not so
much they're moving to the Republican
party as they're moving away from the
Democratic party but there's just a to
use this overused term young men do not
feel seen by the Democratic party it's
like you're fighting for everyone except
for me and let's be honest my group is
not doing well the group that has
ascended the fastest globally is women
um twice as many women in the last 30
years elected to some form of parliament
more women globally now are seeking
tertiary education than men by the way
again a huge victory for all of us
fantastic but there's this analogy that
uh uh Chris Williams the podcast kind of
reminds me a little bit of you uses and
he calls it the high heels effect and
that is 50% of women say they won't date
someone who's shorter than them I bet
it's more like 80% it's just an
embarrassing thing to say and it's very
instinctual because women at some point
are more vulnerable because of pregnancy
and raising kids and they want someone
who instinctively they feel could
physically protect them so they tend to
be not attracted to a man shorter than
them metaphorically women are getting
taller and taller each year making more
money more College attendance they're
just killing it more and more people
elected to positions of power and
influence
men are getting shorter and shorter so
in some you know we've talked about this
women made socioeconomically
horizontally enough men horizontally and
down the pool of horizontal and up among
men is smaller and when men don't have
the prospect of a romantic relationship
they come off the rails women oftentimes
will reinvest that energy in friendships
and work men reinvest that energy and
vaping and video games and porn I mean
men without the prospect of a romantic
relationship
I mean look at the most violent unstable
places in the world they all have a
preponderance of things and that is a
bunch of men with very little economic
or romantic
opportunities and so you have a cohort
of not only young men but families that
are upset and angry about this cohort
may be unfairly expectant around what
they should expect from the American
economy but they're not doing well and
they feel seen by the repu the
Republican party and Trump who are
pushing back on many of these social
policies that the snake is eating its
own its own tail that it's gone so far
to the progressive that at the end of
the day it's no longer promoting the
rights of non-whites for
example 60 years ago 12 black people at
Princeton Harvard and Yale that's a
problem uh two-thirds of Harvard's
freshman class now identifies as
nonwhite and somehow as a non-white male
that's not making as much money that's
more inclined to be an addict or
gambling that owns fewer homes somehow
I'm still the enemy I'm still like I've
been told by media that I'm kind of
should have Collective guilt because of
the privilege my dad and my granddad
received so there's a I think
justifiable anger and a feeling that the
Democratic party has really moved away
from young men it's interesting because
you you make the case that you're not
necessarily convinced it's entirely
young men are choosing the Republican
Party versus them being pushed out of
the democratic partyy that's kind of
summarizes your thoughts and the Wall
Street Journal um did a piece showing
that the Republican Party have gained
more young men over the last couple of
years in 2016 they had 35% of young men
by 2023 they had 48% of young men and
that's a 13o increase in just seven
years and I mean that's the stat from
2023 so I can't imagine what those
numbers look like in 20124 based on this
election cycle
um it made me think think a lot it made
me think a lot about the the Dei
narrative and how the Democratic party
could Champion women without pushing
away young men because we all want
somewhere to belong so if you if you
tell me that I don't belong there and if
I'm guilty of something then I'm going
to go find somewhere and what is it that
the Republican Party have done because
if that 133% increase towards the
Republican party for young men is true
there's something the Republican party
is saying yeah which is making me think
I belong over there sure what is that
well to a certain extent I mean the
strange thing about this one of the
strange things about this election is
that a lot of people thought it was
going to be a referendum on women's
rights bodily autonomy I would argue
those voters are already decided if
you're fiercely uh around uh focus on B
autonomy you're going for Harris if it's
not a big issue for you um you're
probably Trump or if you're pro-life
you're definitely Trump I actually think
the election is going to be decided
based on who presents a more
aspirational effective vision of
masculinity and what you have on the far
right is this vision of masculinity that
I would argue is kind of they would they
would say it's being provocative
aggressive speaking your mind strength
right
toughness but the far right is basically
saying be a little bit coarse and cruel
is how I would describe it the far left
their vision of masculinity is be more
like a
woman and neither of those seem to be
resonating with men
if any of them resonates it's it's the
right uh around young men around this
vision of masculinity what I would argue
is
that what we should or the way to
position that you said that you were
passionate about bodily autonomy is the
Democrats have not done a good job of
convincing young men that bodily
autonomy will affect them specifically a
lack thereof if you want to be kind of
cemented in poverty have an unwanted
child as a man that's not going to help
you economically the case I've been
making to young men when I did an
endorsement of Vice President Harris is
that I think if you
pulled uh a bunch of men under the age
of 30 and said would you rather have
more opportunities for sex or less
opportunities I think the majority would
say I'd rather have more opportunities
for
sex what is going to happen to random
opportunities for sex when if a woman
gets pregnant she might end up in an
emergency room parking lot because the
doctors won't treat her if say she's
having a failed pregnancy and she's in
sepsis there are now instances where an
e emergency room doctors are worried
about treating her for fear that they're
going to be criminally prosecuted what's
going to happen if a young woman gets
pregnant and has to carry the baby to
term do you think she's more inclined to
have random sex so I think what we
needed to do and we failed to do on the
Progressive side is to say the bodily
autonomy affects men almost as much as
it does young women and that the
economic policies of Harris will also
give you I mean if I think about
masculinity is being a a provider a
protector and
procreator provider who's going to give
young men the chance to be the better
provider people think it's going to be
Trump that he's a better business person
he did have a strong economy under his
administration not as strong as the
Biden Administration but the general
view is he would offer a better economy
which atmosphere am I more likely to be
a good provider in and they've done a
better job of articulating that even
though I would argue the evidence is
that if whether it's Goldman Sachs or
any Investment Bank that's done the math
they've said that the economic growth
under the Harris policies would probably
be stronger especially when you take
into account that if if Trump enacts the
tariffs he's talking about 60% on all
Chinese goods and does anything
resembling the war on immigration legal
and illegal that he's articulated that's
a recipe for inflation so I don't think
I think the Republican party has done a
better job of convincing men you're
going to have an easier time being our
provider under our administration
because look at him he's a billionaire
we're about cutting taxes we're about
economic growth drill baby drill when I
would argue the data does not reflect
that protector this is where I think we
really blew it and that is and Michelle
Obama gave a very powerful speech I
think your first instinct your operating
system as a man should be your default
operating system should be moved to
protection like real men break up fights
at bars they don't start them real men
protect their country they don't [__]
post it real men have a real a real
Instinct a refle Le Instinct I felt this
way very strongly when I was younger it
was very motivating for me to protect
the women in their life right you know I
don't know if you are you close with
your mother not
really I'm sorry to hear that um I was
very close with my mother and the first
time I ever thought I need to get my
[__] together professionally was when
she got sick and I had this immense
feeling of like failure as a man because
I couldn't take care of my mom at the
level I wanted to I think that's a
really good default setting for a man to
move to
protection you don't need to understand
the LGBT community you don't need to
understand trans rights you don't need
to understand the nuances of legal or
illegal immigration but when you see a
group being demonized your default
setting should be to protection I think
it comes naturally to men men are more
inclined on the battlefield to run out
and save a comrade and get shot than
women women are more thoughtful they're
more like is that a good idea wouldn't
we be better retreating planning and
then the [__] out they're more they're
more thoughtful they look at the fruit
and say is there pesticides in this
whereas a guy sees movement in the
bushes grabs a spear and tries to go
kill the thing and bring it back they're
more prone to they're more risk
aggressive and I think this default
setting of protection is really powerful
for men and we haven't connected and I
thought Michelle Obama did an
outstanding job trying to make the case
that men need to have a default setting
around protecting women and women's
rights are under real serious threat in
the United States it is becoming a
little bit handmaid's taale 21 States
now restrict to some extent abortion and
the most mendacious thing about that is
it's not a war on women it's a war on
poor women because if you have money and
someone your niece or your daughter gets
pregnant you'll figure it out you'll get
your you'll get a medical abortion
you'll have access to mesop festone I I
don't know if I'm saying that correctly
or uh can get her on a plane to a city
where she can terminate the pregnancy
it's the 15 or 17year old black girl who
gets pregnant doesn't have access to
resources single mother doesn't have
money is embarrassed and no one knows it
until she's five months pregnant that
person is really screwed so I I would
argue that the second leg of the
masculinity stool here around
protection is uh not been made that
strongly or as forcely as it should be
around the Democratic policies I was
trying to think through the lens of
someone a young man in the U in the USA
who is looking at both candidates and
thinking which one is going to allow me
to be the protector the better and again
this is where the economy comes back in
because I think to myself well if I'm
rich I can take care of my mother if I'm
rich I can take care of my family so if
I want to be the big strong protector
then I need to vote Trump because I'm
gonna get rich I think that's their
message and I would argue the data
actually says uh something different
that if you look at the economic
policies the the the clearest signal we
have of what policies would be under
Harris would be to look at Biden's
policies the last four years as a matter
of fact she made a huge mistake on a big
show called The View they asked her how
she would differ how her policies would
be different for Biden and she says I
can't think of anything and it's like
well we didn't want to elect him again
why would we want to elect you it was a
huge gap and by the way she's not good
on her feet I mean we don't like to say
that on the left she's gotten better she
was outstanding in the debate cuz you
could tell she practiced and the split
screen she destroyed him during the
debate but on her feet she's not nearly
as good as him he comes off he says
stupid things but he's likable and funny
and she thinks too much she's just you
see her trying to M for the perfect
answer whereas he just goes blah blah
blah blah blah I walked into the room
and I told Putin stop that I said way I
mean you're like you said way to the
president of Russia and also if you want
to see real sexism and misogyny in
America there's just no getting around
it she is
graded on an entirely different curve
than him if she had ever been accused of
sexual assault if she'd said half the
crazy [__] he said it just would be like
everyone's hair on fire she'd be totally
disqualified you know van Jones who I
admire a law said he's Lawless she has
to be flawless I mean people are parsing
her words and then you know he says he
says the most the strangest weirdest
thing things that make no sense and seem
sort of just you know just ridiculous so
she's graded on an entirely different
curve than him but provider right
they've done a better job protector I
think men are young men are starting to
see that this is getting really serious
around bodily autonomy we're heading the
wrong direction and then procreation and
all these things are tied together she's
Pro you know she's offering a first-time
home buyer's tax credit small business
loans she her tax policy would probably
better for young people worse for older
rich people right so I would argue that
and also at the end of the damn bodily
autonomy uh I go back to what I said
earlier guys if you're looking at have
sex you got to give women control
dominion over their domain over their
own person there's there's a few things
that I thought as you as you were
talking through that then one of them is
um in life generally you've got to be
careful what hill you build yourself and
what I mean by that is if Kamal Harris
has built this hill of perfection and
polish then that's what she's graded on
and it's the same for all of us I
remember having a conversation with my
friend who was taking to the internet to
talk about environmental issues and
stuff like that when I knew he didn't
really give a [__] about those things
and I said to him I said be very careful
because if that's the brand you build
for yourself that's the also the brand
you'll be attacked based on because no
one wants a contradiction so be careful
you might not want to be perfect I think
the the best the sort of most protective
position you can take in a world of
cancer culture and wokeism is to admit
how [__] you are at everything
and admit how imperfect you are and how
much you don't recycle because then at
least nobody can call you out and what
Donald Trump has built is this hill of
like kind of sloppiness off the cuff so
we're so desensitized to it and we don't
actually hold him to the standard of the
law anymore yeah and so he it's he's
almost impossible to attack because it's
so
consistent so consistent if you're going
to be accused of assault by a woman the
kid to be accused by
28 uh you know you don't you don't say
one offensive thing you say offensive
things every time you open your mouth
rap this of the prime example no one
comes at them for what they say no but
if some if Taylor Swift said something
off i'' be like whoa you know so it's
flood the Zone but he seems
authentic and I also think that this is
a lesson for the Democratic party I
think to get out of identity politics I
don't think we should have that page
identifying policies based on your race
your sexual orientation your gender I I
I think the sun has passed midday on
that on Dei the whole de thing I would
argue that affirmative action is a
wonderful thing and it made sense for it
to be race-based back in 1960 what is
that sorry well Dei or affirmative
action so essentially in America we've
decided to Advantage certain people from
a very young age we give them money we
give them preference getting into
college we're told we hire them based on
their gender their sexual orientation
the color of their skin so we give we
Advantage some people which there's just
no getting around it disadvantages
others so the question is most people
agree Democrats and Republicans that
some people have had so many headwinds
in their face they deserve a hand up the
question is how do you identify and
what's the metric for qualifying for a
hand up and traditionally it's based on
De the Dei apparatus built on campus has
been based on identity politics you know
are you gay are you non-white right
where and what I would argue is that we
need to move past that get out of
identity politics still have affirmative
action but it should be based on color
and that color should be green and that
is is in America and this is wonderful
today you'd rather be born non-white or
gay than
poor and there's all sorts of evidence
and so Harvard now two-thirds of their
freshman class is non-white but 70% of
those non-whites came from upper inome
homes with dual parents so letting in
the Taiwanese billionaire private Equity
daughter is not diversity so where I
think we need to head in the nation is
to move away in the Democratic Party
from Identity politics and say you know
what we're here to to continue to
reinvest in the greatest innovation in
history and that's the middle class and
we're here to give people from uh lower
income homes a hand up and by the way
70% of the people who now benefit from
affirmative action would still get it
because we do still have a bit of an
economic aparti in the US black and
Latino households average net worth
around 20 25 Grand Average White
household 150 160 Grand so what you
would do is the people who would lose in
a new construct would be non-whites from
wealthy households and the people who
would gain are white kids from appala
who come from alcome homes but you tell
some white kid being raised by a single
parent in Kentucky whose dad has been
incarcerated that oh no you don't
deserve any sort of help that family is
pretty pissed off so I and I have a bias
here I'm a
beneficiary of affirmative action I got
something called pel grants I was raised
by a single immigrant mother who lived
in d a secretary household income was
never over $40,000 so I got grants not
loans based on my household
income and that obviously I'm a big fan
of that and so I think the Democratic
party would be well served to move away
from Identity politics and just talk
about things like the middle class talk
about helping people who are you know if
you if you are from a top one % income
earning household you're 77 times more
likely to get into an elite school the
best thing that can happen to you in the
US the smartest thing you can do is
decide to be born to Rich parents it's
in a different life and so I believe
what the University of California system
did in 1997 27 years ago is the right
way to go and that is they banned
race-based affirmative action and they
have what's called an adversity score
now and they say has this kid shown
resilience and an ability to overcome
obstacles in his or her life
and I think that's the right way to run
quite frankly government policies
because when we get into identity
politics I think it just creates more
it's now creating more problems than
it's
solving I completely agree and I'm
obviously you know think people would
consider me to be a black man because my
mother's um Nigerian and I was born in
Africa but and you know we had a
tumultuous start uh in in to
my to my life I guess in in a way
because we we didn't have money in the
household we struggled economically but
now I'm good yeah so my future black
kids aren't requiring any kind of
advantages because they're going to be
born into a different class 100% so you
don't need to give my future black kids
advant like any leg up in the world when
they've started with a dad who can who
is can open doors for them and can get
them into whatever school he wants to
get them into so my belief has been and
it's a real belief that's grown grown in
me over the last couple of years is that
we should be doing this based on class
as you say yeah and benefiting those at
the very bottom of the socioeconomic
ladder um with those advantages and not
people like my future kids that's right
who absolutely will not need it in any
regard and I do think there the Dei
conversation is a bit problematic and
I've tried to keep it away from my my
companies but at the same time we do
want a diversity of opinion we do want a
diversity of lived experience because
we're in the creative Industries and we
want to see we want to represent the
world but we don't want to be
disproportionately handing out
opportunities based on factors like race
alone or gender alone it's encouraging
to hear you say that but also I also
have to acknowledge I've been the
beneficiary of massive bias I didn't
even when I was raising money for my
compies in the 90s I didn't even
acknowledge it why are the only people
getting funded in Silicon
Valley white dudes all white dudes 98%
of the capital was going to not men
white men it's like okay I didn't even
notice and it's gotten a lot better but
when I was raising money from my last
company
L2 The Venture Capital firm that backed
us they have a standard and that is you
have to meet with all the partners in a
one big meeting 27 Partners my two
co-founders both women I'm in there I
didn't even notice meeting goes well in
the middle of the meeting my co-founder
who's not a dramatic person goes I need
to speak to you we walk out and she's
like we can't take money from these guys
I'm like why what's happened she's like
you haven't noticed all 27 people are
men there's not a single woman in the
partnership at this ventri Capital firm
not one out of
27 and I it it didn't even dawn on me
that all of this prosperity and
opportunity had been crowded into
basically 23% of the population now
having said that that was
2014 10 years later I think a quarter to
a third of their partners are now female
because they got the memo
and things have changed dramatically and
I would like to think that we've made
enough progress around affirmative
action around identity that we can move
to what you're talking about and that's
economically driven affirmative action
and the great thing about this as well
is as you said a second ago the people
who are in those minorities because of
the statistics will be included within a
class-based system the majority the
majority yeah yeah um which is really
really
encouraging you talked about this
October surprise being t Hing Cliff's um
speech at the Madison Square Garden
rally the other day you know there's a
lot going on like I don't know if you
guys know this but there's literally a
floating island of garbage in the middle
of the ocean right now yeah I think it's
called Puerto
Rico okay all right okay we're getting
there it's absolutely wild to see and in
Texas stuff is really really crazy we're
right there by a wide open border where
my proud Latinos at
tonight you guys see what I mean it's
wide open there's so many of them it's
absolutely
incredible Believe It or Not people I
welcome migrants to the United States of
America with open arms and by Open Arms
I mean like
[Applause]
this it's wild and these Latinos they
love making babies too just know that
they do they do there's no pulling
out they don't do that they come inside
just like they did to our
[Laughter]
country Republicans are the party with a
good sense of humor I I feel like I'm in
two minds about it because I think mind
one is I go he's a comedian and
everybody knows he was telling a joke
everybody knows that a wasn't Trump that
said it and everyone knows that he's a
comedian there to say inappropriate
things if you've listened to his kill
Tony show that's what he does yeah he's
not I there's no part of me that thinks
God he hates Puerto Ricans whatever and
then the other part of my mind goes they
should have known that in that context
any word would be used as an opportunity
to create a marketing campaign do you
think what do you think of that incident
uh so there's common ground with us I
think comedians should be cut a really a
really wide birth I think when Dave
Chappelle says offensive things about
the trans community
he should be given a wide
birth when Michelle wolf at the White
House correspondence din her says really
off-color things I think she should be
given a wide birth comedians play a
really important role and that is they
say provocative sometimes obnoxious
offensive things to soften the beach to
get you to
think and they're comedians so I agree
with you they should be given a wide
birth in my view whether you think it
was racist or not I don't think that's
the important conversation it's 10 days
before the
election art is getting away with it if
you say something offensive it better be
funny I say part of the success of my
podcast with Caris Wier is I say
very offensive things you know she's a
lesbian and I'm like you know how's the
German Shepherd in the
Subaru and there's a pause an
uncomfortable pause and then she laughs
and it gives everyone permission to
laugh and the majority of the times I
say something offensive it's a little
bit oh like I don't want to laugh but
that was funny I get away with it that's
art he did not that was not art it
wasn't funny I mean the worst the most
offensive thing about what he said was
it wasn't funny if it had been [__]
hilarious people would be like oh my God
they'd like and they would have forgiven
him his jokes did not land and when you
said things like we welcome immigrants
with open hands and what we say to
Mexican immigrants is no not here and uh
and by the way they have kids they come
inside just the way they came inside and
it's just like it just wasn't that funny
it was offensive if you're going to be
offensive you better be funny and he
wasn't and just tactically speaking when
you say that there's this floating
island of garbage in the sea and it's
Puerto Rico and there are 400,000 Puerto
Ricans in
Pennsylvania and if 10,000 more who
might have sat on the couch that day
actually get up and kind of you know
souls to polls feet on the street get to
the pole those people could swing
Pennsylvania which is a toss-up right
now and Pennsylvania could swing the
entire election so just tactically
speaking whoever's in charge of his
campaign when they saw the teleprompter
by the way they knew what was going on
this was on a teleprompter on a risk
adjusted basis they should have said no
we're going to put the jokes about
Puerto Ricans aside for now because if
for whatever reason on a risk adjusted
basis we offend them we could lose the
entire election so I don't even think of
it as an argument around whether
comedians should be given a wide birth
or not I agree with you I don't I don't
think a conversation around whether it
reflects racism on the part of of the
Trump Administration or the fact that
they quite frankly have a really
appealing sense of humor one of the
things I hate about my party quite
frankly is we become [__]
humorless everything's
offensive everything is I mean unless
it's a dad joke everything is offensive
or triggers people people people are
just so sick of that [__] a post racist
Society I majority of my close friends
are gay and they constantly make fun of
my sexual orientation and I make fun of
theirs and it's a form of affection it's
not
mean-spirited and the Democratic party
feels just so sensitive and so weak on
this [__] so whether you think that's
the right way to go to be a touch
offensive sometimes very offensive in
the hospices of Comm I'm down with that
tactically it was stupid and I believe
it might be the October surprise I'll be
very curious I have friends who are
campusing and I I want to be clear a lot
of this is confirmation bias I'm seeing
ghosts where I want to see them right
because I'm really hoping it's vice
president Harris but I have talked to
people in the Harris campaign we have
300,000 people feed on the street
walking people to the polls Trump
supposedly has 50,000 somewhere between
30 and 50,000 so for every one person
knocking on doors for a trump voter and
saying did you have you gone to the
polls do you need to walk there do you
need a ride there there's 10 people in
these states these swing States working
for Harris I think they might get
another five or 10,000 Puerto Ricans who
weren't going to vote to the polls and
that could swing the entire election I
just think tactically on a risk adjusted
basis it was a really stupid move yeah
100% on strategic tactical giving the
other side an opportunity to run ads
with the Trump little placard thing
there was someone insulting Puerto
Ricans most people wouldn't have seen
the rally so all they're going to see is
this clip hundreds of millions of people
are going to see that clip and they're
going to think Trump Vance insulting
Puerto Ricans that's who I am that's my
blood I can no longer with good faith
tick that box I can no longer do it so
they'll either not not tick it or
they'll go to the polls and they
otherwise wouldn't have done so
tactically and strategically terrible
decision but it's funny because I also
look at it as I said as an incident in
an isolation and I go it actually put me
off a little bit that
the left because of the fake outrage I
know you're not that pissed off yeah
yeah like
dare look at I'm get I know you're not
that pissed off at that like if you are
I feel really sorry for the life yeah
you know what me we're going to be fine
but strategically and objectively bad
decision I completely agree yeah um who
do you think is going to win well I tell
you I'll tell you what I'm doing this
afternoon I'm GNA bet
$358,000 on poly Market I'm I'm doing
this I have my CFO figure this out I'm
going to invest bet
$358,000 on Harris because on polym
Market it's
6238 because my observation is that the
people who go to these betting sites
tend to be younger tend to be more male
and they're much more Trump the
statistics and the polls every A+
quality poll shows it is a toss up
within the margin of error with a slight
advantage to Trump so if I said to you
Steve and
I'm going to flip a coin you have to
pick heads or tails if you bet a dollar
though you're going to get $2.90 back
you would take that bet because say it's
a 50% or close to 50% likelihood but the
payoff is 2.8 to one on a risk adjusted
basis you're getting free risk adjusted
return here's why I wouldn't bet on
Harris is because I've seen that Hillary
Clinton election where all the polls had
Hillary winning in a landslide and then
something happens there's this visible
force that means that people for
whatever reason either they don't
express their true um opinions about
Trump because there's you know social
ramifications they're embarrassed or the
the enthusiasm Force which is who have
you got more energy to get off the sofa
that day and go and vote for is it
Hillary Clinton who's kind of more of
the same whatever or is it Trump who's
going to burn it down I think that's a
fair point the so but back to the the
380 if I win I get a million bucks back
so even if the edges to him on a risk
adjusted basis it's a great bet because
you're
getting the the odds of her winning are
not one and three they might be they
might be two and five but they're not
one and three and so I just look at it
statistically that I'm getting free
potential free risk adjusted upside
anyways what you said about the
enthusiasm I went canvas for uh
secretary Clinton I think secretary
Clinton was like I I I think she's
incredibly unlikable and an out standing
thinker and politician I think on
foreign policy she's she's one of the
most competent people to have ever been
in government when I canvased for her in
Florida I went into sort of a i' call it
a lower upper middle class neighborhood
mixed quite a few black people quite a
few whites I go into black households I
knock on the door I'm canvasing for for
secretary Clinton oh come on in super
nice you voting yeah you voting for
secretary CL yes I am do you know where
your polling station is oh no we have M
are you registered you just started to
like it's the enthusiasm clear wasn't
there and a couple times when I would
knock on and again I'm playing identity
politics maybe a white more often a
white household that was a trump
supporter they slam the door in my face
and I said to the they always send you
out with two people I'm like that's
passion the other folks are being nice
to us they don't even know where their
polling stations are they're not turning
out like they were they weren't there's
not the enthusiasm there was for Obama
and I remember thinking we might be in
trouble here the the embarrassment or
hold my beer while I go behind a curtain
and vote for Trump effect I think that's
mostly gone away I don't think people
are nearly as embarrassed to say they're
trumpers now I don't so I think I think
the polls are probably there's less of a
Delta between the polls and what's
actually going on than I think than
there used to be uh but you know the
honest answer is I don't know the three
reasons or the reason Reas I think that
Harris is might pull it off or is going
to pull it off is one the issue
impacting women is bodily autonomy I do
think women are young women are squarely
in Harris's camp and quite frankly women
are more organized so you have a young
man and a young woman both planning to
vote there's a much greater likelihood
the woman actually votes this is sexist
but women are more organized they're
more meticulous they're better planners
they're better allocators of their time
you're going to have more men young men
on November the 5th for whatever reason
something's going to get in the way and
they're not going to make it to the
polls that's going to happen a lot more
to Young I mean you'll see this when
you're you have young men I have a 17 to
14-year-old young men are just dopes I'm
not even a dad I'm their prefrontal
cortex I'm helping them make decisions
and young men's prefrontal cortex
literally doesn't catch up to a woman's
until they're about 25 and then it
catches up so I'm banking on a much more
a much bigger turnout among young women
than young men and that's Advantage
Harris I do think the last minute thing
around Puerto Rico was really stupid in
Pennsylvania and also I'd like to think
some of this message around men being
protectors and the message that I think
the Democratic party has done a pretty
good job over the last couple weeks is
guys it's time for us to step
up um but again this is all confirmation
bias I'm looking for reasons why Harris
is going to win the majority of the
polls I see within the margin of error
but if you were a statistician and you
had to pick one you'd probably pick
Trump right now so do you think Trump's
going to win I don't I think Harris is
gonna win really you think haris yeah I
you know what I don't again I think when
people get behind the the curtain it's
like I think people are just
exhausted America is
so it's like if America were a horror
movie The call is coming from inside of
the house it we're doing really well on
the majority of dimensions that people
we're going to grow our economy next
year in terms of gross domestic product
by more than the rest of the world
combined and gross dollar level this is
all prefrontal cortex well can you name
a great AI company outside of the US
most dominant technology in history
created more shareholder value in the
last 24 months in the entire Auto
industry has done since the beginning of
the Auto industry what AI company exists
outside of the US this is all prenal CeX
though like and what's the amydala the
amigdala the emotional Cent of the brain
is seeing this guy in a suit get off a
plane with his name on it and it so it
doesn't really matter what you say when
you come on the podium I just saw a
billionaire got off a plane with his
name on it I go he's gonna help me get
rich that's what the brain the brain is
like and it's so interesting because as
a marketeer you know I've come to learn
over time that stories especially
emotional ones always Trump data facts
and stats in every regard I had I sat
here with a neuroscientist one day who
was talking about Trump and I think it
was Dr Ben Carlson and they were having
a debate during the I think the early
primaries maybe in 16 and they were
talking about the vaccine and the doctor
made his case for why the the vaccine
doesn't give you autism went through the
stats the facts and the figures and then
the neuroscientist said to me she goes
and then Trump made his case and he
started his case like this the needle I
got a friend who was has a daughter who
is this big and points to the floor and
they came to her with a needle this big
and they gave her the injection and
she's got autism yeah and the
neuroscientist said to me she goes I
know he's not telling the truth but even
me I felt less likely to give my
daughter that vaccine because of that
one emotional personal anecdote versus
the stats and this is what this election
looks like to me the stats don't matter
the facts don't matter how do I feel
what is the frame telling me when I look
at you also it it reflects uh a a lack
of respect for our
institutions both Republicans and
Democrats the antia movement actually
started on the far left it was sort of a
granola don't put weird things in your
bodies but I think as much as you're
talking about wanting to tickle people's
emotional sensors or they move they want
to feel good as opposed to think about
the data we used to come together around
data and we used to respect institutions
when the American Pediatric Association
said there's no evidence showing a
correlation between vaccines and you
know myocardia or whatever it is there's
no there's no we can't find a
correlation between vaccines and autism
the CD the American Pediatric
Association the American Health
Association the Journal of America jam
now people are like oh you can't trust
those folks because there's a lack of
respect and I do think the right's been
more responsible for for the left they
they go after institutions and so people
don't know who to trust and they trust
their social media algorithm now which
is feeds them really incendiary kind of
polarizing content but back to why I
think Harris ultimately is going to pull
it out I think people are exhausted
Stephen and
I think that Trump represents more chaos
and exhaustion right now do people I
don't know this but I'm hoping quite a
few swing voters are going to go do I
really want to go back to that do I
really I mean it was pretty people I
don't think people I wonder if people
are going to remember I like wish they
had those apple reels just how chaotic
and tense it was I mean think about
Biden that I the thing I love most about
Biden was he was pretty boring
boring you know I think people have
forgotten what it was like that covid
the the black lives matters protests
everything being smashed to Pieces the
US burning um and then the like whole
covid chaos and when I looked at the
stats ahead of our conversation today
about that asked people are is your life
better or worse than it was four years
ago most people think their life was
better then and they because they you
have this Ro Rose tinted sort of glasses
about the past it's why that question I
can't remember was it Reagan or one of
the politicians who was the pioneer of
that election shifting question which is
do you feel better off now than four
years ago it works every election cycle
because people almost always think they
were worse off four years um they were
better off four years ago than they are
today they all like always think you
could say that in any election cycle and
it's persuasive and you go you know
actually yeah even if you have more
money you're doing your health is better
your your education's better you'll
still look back at the past and go those
were the good old days I think it's just
a bias of humans you roast into glasses
you forget the bad well and also for in
America if you're under the age of 45
you've never experienced inflation and
when you look back and think wow a hotel
room at the Bly Hill Hotel you're going
to La is up is doubled in the last four
years and it has the seral I buy is up
30 or
40% again you get a raise you think it's
your grit and character the price of
cereal goes up you blame you blame the
government but I don't I mean I'm hoping
Harris wins and I'm finding reasons why
I think she will it's total confirmation
bias
what I also really hope happens is that
whoever wins I hope it's
decisive because political parties you
know in the 30s we had kind of the new
deal from Democrats 80s we had the
Republican Revolution people kind of
came together and
admitted this is where America wants to
go things the worst thing about you can
argue the worst thing the thing that's
ailing America is what's ailing the
Middle East there's never a definitive
winner there's never someone there's
never a party that they kind of I don't
want to say the best thing that could
happen because I I think one part's got
it wrong on things like bodily autonomy
and peaceful transfer power but we need
a party to kind of come in and win 55 or
60% of the vote so there's no arguing
over the direction America wants to go
right now because if it's really close
there's just going to be so much I mean
the amount of money that's being lined
up and the number of lawyers lined up to
contest the election on either side
right now is just crazy and one of the
things I love about about the UK you
guys start and finish an election in 8
weeks and it also kind of seems like
whatever this guy's name is people don't
like him but they don't hate them it's
sort of like okay it's over keep calm
and move along in the US it's it's
gotten so it's like we're so spoiled by
our blessings and our
prosperity uh the one algorithms have
taken us away from each other also and I
realize I'm paranoid but it doesn't mean
I'm wrong I I think the CCP in Russia
cannot beat us kinetically they cannot
beat us economically so they're
weaponizing social media platforms to
divide us from one another and I think
they're doing a really good job and
Americans are easier to fool than
convinced we've been fooled and I think
there are Bad actors foreign actors who
weaponized these platforms to quite
frankly start getting us to hate each
other the easiest way to defeat Native
Americans was to get them Waring with
each other and have them kill 30% of
each other and then come in for a
cleanup operation and I think that's
happening in the US right now if you go
on Tik Tok there's 52 pramas videos for
every one pro-israel video and I'm not
suggesting the CCP or the gru are
anti-semitic I'm suggesting they see an
opportunity to polarize people
internally in the US and get us hating
each other no one can defeat us right
now we are we are undefeatable from a a
military or an economic standpoint right
now the way to defeat us and deposition
us strategically internationally is to
get us hating each other and I think
they're doing a good job that's the most
convincing argument I've actually ever
heard for why China played a role in Tik
Tok and why also they don't care about
owning it is because they set up an
algorithm which is so unbelievably
brutal um we always from I come from a
social media background where we worked
in social media for 10 15 years now and
the one defining thing about this the
Tik Tok algorithm is if you post
something regardless of how many
followers you have it'll either get a
thousand views or 7 million it's the
only algorithm with such extreme
variance and what that tells you is that
the algorithm is basically saying okay
take that and show it to everybody and
actually that's not good to show it to
nobody and because it's doing that you
can imagine the amount of sort of
division where polarizing content on
this side is going to everyone Nuance
goes to No One Nuance like unemotional
Nu Nuance takes goes to no one and then
polarizing content on the left or the
right also goes to everyone so if I was
actually thinking about if I was
brainstorming in China and I wanted to
tear the West apart what I would do is I
would introduce an app that has an
extreme algorithm either way and I
wouldn't care about owning it I wouldn't
care about they can run it I'll give
them all the all the shares just get it
into their society while over there in
China we control our algorithm well we
don't and we don't allow foreign actors
anywhere near I'm going to list now
every American Media company in China
okay I'm done they just there's no way
they're going to let us over there and
yet we have a neural Jack implanted into
the wet matter of our youth it's more
dominant than CBS ABC and NBC were in
the 60s so would we allow would we have
allowed the Kremlin to own CBS NBC and
ABC that's what we're doing right now
with Tik Tok kids spend more time on Tik
Tok now under the age of 25 than they
spend on all broadcast
media uh combined this is also true of
meta and the primary fuel for that
algorithm what the algorithm tries to
sus out the thing that used to be the
ultimate gangster moving marketing used
to be sex sex sales show hot people
playing volleyball and people well if I
drink more beer I too will be hot right
if I have this car I'm more likely to
have a random sexual experience I would
really like to have more random sexual
experiences so I'll buy the new Chrysler
cardoba with original Corinthian Lether
right it used to be sex cells basically
meta figured out there's something
better than sex
rage so if you have a long hourlong
conversation with a epidemiologist it
says yeah we rolled out the polio
vaccine too quickly in the 50s and 60s
and a bunch of people died but generally
speaking vaccines uh are
probably have Pro probably prevented
more unnecessary Death than anything in
I mean a long thoughtful conversation
that's data driven the algorithms hate
that [__] but if you're RFK Jr and
you're on a podcast he leans in he says
Stephen the best thing you can do when
you see someone with a baby is to say to
them don't get her vaccinated like he
he's this handsome charming guy and he
looks looks at you and says that's the
best thing you can tell a new mother oh
my God the algorithms love that because
the people who have been worried about
vaccines and and and believe that
conspiracy love it and people like me
get [__] outraged in [__] post him
more comments algorithm oh my God more
comments more interaction more Nissan
ads more shareholder value so let's take
the most incendiary [__] and give it way
more reach than it would get
organically so it's happening naturally
even Among Us companies but then if I
wrap it in cute dance videos and I can
put my thumb on content that's really
incendiary whether it's a conflict in
the Middle East or income inequality or
the lack of opportun I mean just a lot
of my content around how young people
are not doing well has gone viral on Tik
Tok and I'm kind of playing into the
algorithm oh this gu saying young people
should be angry we like that thumb on
the scale I just think it's so so
ridiculous that we don't think we're
being played what would we do in the
west if we had an opportunity to dial up
anti-islamic Republic content in a
social media platform in Iran you don't
think we'd game that [__] we have a
division of the army called scops that's
all they do is try and spread our media
content that's very pro-american and
anti our adversaries across different
mediums across the world the problem is
we're not used to them doing it to us
and it's so genius meta involved I'm uh
I finally got after seven years I
finally got an original scripted series
on big Tech greenlighted it's going to
be on Netflix and I'm really enjoying
putting together certain scenes and
scenarios and a scenario I believe has
happened over and over is that
Zuckerberg goes in front of Congress and
gets pillared no concern for young
people Skyrocket and teen suicide they
got their Tik Tock moment then he goes
into a confidential Security hearing and
he says guys do you want me to continue
to help you kill terrorists meta is the
ultimate Espionage vehicle the mosad the
CIA the gru would kill to control meta I
can tell someone's relationships their
vulnerabilities where they are I can GPS
locate it I bet says do you want me to
continue to help you kill terrorists and
they say yeah and then he's like then
back the [__] off and what do you know
there's never been a law passed
regulating social media I think that is
what is happening after these Congress
people get their Tick Tock moment we're
riding a scene right now where I believe
that a lot of the drone strikes against
terrorists in Yemen and other places
have been aided by social media
platforms tracking people down your
14-year-old has their phone out and
they're on Instagram and their dad or
their Uncle at the wedding of bad people
doesn't know this kid's on their phone
they've all been told I mean everyone is
on these platforms so I think we're
doing it and the CCP would be stupid not
to be dialing up content that makes us
angry at each other such we're not
focused on whether China invades Taiwan
or not they have a they'd be stupid not
to be doing
this do you think age matters in this
election Trump's age what's he's gonna
be 80 something years old but he'll be
he he's he'll be if he's elected he'll
be older than when Biden was elected the
differences he presents is more Rob and
we don't like to admit this as Democrats
he presents is more robust than Biden I
mean remember when Biden made the trash
comment like he popped up out of nowhere
I'm like oh Biden's still around it felt
to me like a video of someone about to
go into hospice saying how much they
love their great great grandchildren he
he started over the the previous two
sentences that managed to get the words
out and I oh gosh man his voice is weak
he just he feels like he's passed his
expiration day and on the Democratic
party we're so politically correct we
thought we were being aist and if if
Harris loses I don't think I don't think
it's going to reflect well on Biden
Biden did not want to drop out we have
this myth that he dropped out no he was
booted out Nancy py wed Pelosi walked up
speaker Pelosi and said if you don't
drop out she saw the down ballot was
going to be terrible with him at the top
of the ticket every day for the next 10
days I'm going to have more and more
people come out against you in your
party he did not want to they haven't
spoken since that conversation the
notion yeah they haven't spoken how' you
know uh there's uh she'll admit it she
said publicly they haven't had a
conversation since that conversation I
mean the notion that all of a sudden he
woke up whatever it was nine weeks
before the election and decided it'd be
best for America if I dropped out no
these people are narcissists the same
way Ruth Bader Ginsburg her narcissism
ended up hugely D No One Believes
they're actually going to die right I
mean did you you didn't see Senator
Feinstein it was ghoulish it was the
land of The Walking Dead and she
couldn't show up for a hearing by virtue
of you running for office to to put up
with all of that [__] you have to
have get tremendous gratification from
ego-driven Industries you have to be I I
think it's almost impossible not to be a
narcissist Biden's
narcissism May cost us the election
because the reality is this would have
been a much better candidate had there
been a competition not a coronation we
are great at producing qualified
candidates who have to go through if you
talk to anyone who's going on a mission
in the military and they get to pick
their crew the first question is very
simple have they ever seen combat have
they ever been on a mission that
involved combat that's the first
consideration there's just nothing that
gets you ready for combat like combat
and the primary process is combat the
debates the media scrutiny you get good
you get Battle tested or you get swept
off the deck immediately here are some
of the people who are leading in the
polls you know who Herman Kane is oh
he's the is he the the black yeah the
black he was leading he was the he was
leading the Republican Rudy Giuliani was
leading do you remember who Fred
Thompson was no star of La law he was
number one in the polls soon as the
campaigns and the primary started they
got swept off the decks now Vice
President Harris may have well been the
candidate that won but I think she would
have been more paddle tested if she been
forced to do a series of debates or we
would have ended up with a Nome or a
Whitner I think we did oursel a
disservice or specifically Biden and the
Democratic party who thought that aism
got the memo about being biology got the
memo about aism and politically correct
it is insane that we allowed that to
happen to go on as long as it did he
should have been forced out of the race
well before he was I think in there'll
be a lot of second guessing if she
doesn't
win uh I think a lot of it is going to
land on his shoulders and the people
around him in the Democratic party who
went into this consensual
hallucination that that we were being
AIS well you know who else is AES
biology and biology's attitude was hold
my beer look at this guy you said on the
pivot that there's a one in three chance
that Trump dies in office just based on
his AG in BMI if I was an insurance
agent and he wanted $300,000 in
Insurance life insurance and I didn't
need profits or anything I would charge
him $100,000 because just based on his
body mass index and his age there's a
one in three chance he leaves feet first
from the White
House two last things Trump and Elon
Musk what do you make of that
partnership do you think that's been a
net positive for the Republicans and oh
yeah yeah yeah when you you see that
rocket booster rocket barreling
towards gravity gravity like sucking it
back down and then it ignites and
somehow this [__] straightens out and
it's and it veers and
navigates into these giant metal
Chopsticks you're just like [__] a
man I want a Tesla I want to go on
Twitter I wanna what whoever that guy is
voting for I'm voting for I mean that
stuff is impressive he's also got a very
big platform form to weaponize he's
basically said I don't care if it's
illegal I'm going to run these contests
million bucks a day to registrant I
think he's probably the most
aspirational figure among young men
globally I mean he's building cars
rockets and has brain chips it's like
he's every eight-year-old boy's dream
tunel yeah I mean he impossible not to
admire on a lot of levels it's very good
for Trump feeds into this manosphere
Politically Incorrect economic growth
the guy is there's no doubt about it a
genius and a RIS Taker and has balls the
size of Saturn to do the [__] he's done
so huge huge Advantage Biden one of
Biden's biggest mistakes
politically was he had an EV Summit and
he didn't invite musk so let's have the
woman who invented the Pontiac Leaf
there but we're not going to have Tesla
there
that was so that was so
stupid and I I've hold grudges for much
less than that and Elon used to be kind
of a he voted for Obama I wouldn't
describe him as a hardcore conservative
but he said he queued for hours and
hours to shake Obama's hand yeah so we
Biden uh blew it and also the really
dangerous thing about an autocracy is
that it's really effective and that is
the following if you do the algebra if
I'm a
VC that's bet big on
crypto and I say you know Trump says to
me raise me a billion dollars and I'll
have the FED announce that they're
putting 10 billion into crypto into
Bitcoin all he I wouldn't be surprised
if this conversation has happened hey
Mark Andre I know you have huge
investments in Bitcoin and crypto and
the blockchain I'm going to take Bitcoin
to a million dollars a coin and this is
how I'm going to do it and I need you to
raise me a billion dollarars I I bet
something along that conversation has
happened a former Attorney General and
someone who's raised you know went to
law school I don't think she's had that
conversation with anyone or at least
it's it's a lot less a lot more opaque
in addition the algebra is the following
if I support Trump and he loses there's
really almost zero chance I might not
get an ambassadorship to France but
there's zero chance vice president
Harris is going to weaponize the doj and
come after me he has threatened people
and
companies with the full the full power
and heft of government agencies if
they're not supportive of him so I
support
him and he loses I'm still fine and I'm
money good if he wins I support her and
he
wins I don't know I talked to a very
famous host of a morning show that's
this iconic journalist who's been very
anti-trump he's thinking about moving to
London if he wins not not one of these
oh I'm out of here I hate America he's
physically worried that he might be that
he that he will need to go offline for a
while because he doesn't want to get in
the crosshairs of the doj or
organization weaponized Jamie Diamond
smart guy great leader I just don't
believe Jaimie diamond in any way
supports Trump but occasionally throws
out a nice thing about him because he
wants to be treasury secretary and he
doesn't want Trump coming after JP Mor
by the way JP Morgan is worth more than
the 10 biggest banks in Europe just to
give you a sense of how well the
American economy is doing so the upside
the math is the following I have less
downside if I support Trump than if I
support Harris what happens to America
if Trump wins do you
think well are you scared of that
America no not as much as people are I
think that catastrophizing on both sides
is ridiculous uh not ridiculous I I just
don't think it's warranted it doesn't
recognize history America is so strong
economically I think America is such an
incredible experiment people still want
to go there the human capital inflows
are still unbelievable the
risk-taking the institutions I think
America is stronger than any individual
candidate and I think we have survived
worse than him or her both sides claim
it's the end of America if he or she
gets in the catastrophizing from both
sides I don't think recognizes history
nor
appreciates America has endured much
worse than him or her so I don't think
America goes away or anything like that
there are certain
groups that will be hurt uh I do believe
women who want to have bodily autonomy
if he gets another one or two
appointments on the Supreme Court we
could see pretty pretty
onerous uh abortion laws across not 21
but maybe 41 maybe even a federal ban I
mean it could get pretty ugly for women
who who believe that bodily autonomy is
is important I think it's ugly for young
people to rack up these deficits
essentially a deficit is a tax on young
people paid in 10 or 20 years deficits
don't matter deficits are really good
for me because I get the champagne and
cocaine of short-term stimulus we're
spending $7 trillion doll a year on five
trillion and receipts that's great for
me my stocks go up the price of my homes
go up by the time [__] gets real and
Chinese don't show up for a treasury
auction I'm probably I don't know
sitting in Aspen waiting for the ass
cancer I mean I'm literally going to be
70 or 80 by the time that happens people
your age by the time you come into your
Prime income earning years if you're in
America you might see mortgage rates of
22% you might see runaway inflation
these deficits are totally out of
control so I think young people
long-term economically I think women in
terms of bodily autonomy
shortterm are big big losers
corporations probably win in the short
term with Trump because he he's talking
about he's talking about doing away with
all taxes I pay American Tax tax right
now he's talking about doing away with
taxes for guys like me that live abroad
that I won have to pay taxes I'm like
all right brother let's rock on let's
roll but young people in America who are
going to have to deal with a debt to GDP
that might be two or 300% which usually
doesn't end well so I think certain
groups won't do well but the notion that
we're going to the America's going to go
away or all of a sudden I think we'd
probably have less Authority on a global
stage I it's very hard for us to wave
our finger at
anyone I think we'll lack moral
Authority with someone like Trump in
office but at the same time a lot of
policy experts say
people Nations might be more afraid to
take actions against America because
he's unpredictable he's not measured in
any way so do you think he's more likely
to end the
wars because I have to be honest this is
one where I I go I think Trump calling
up a Putin right well is more likely to
and the war than camela Harris or the
Democrats calling at Putin because
they're they're on a similar wavelength
of um I don't even know what the word is
but I feel like that's there's a higher
probability I'm not saying it'll be a
good deal for the Ukraine right but I
think the missiles will stop
firing so from Putin's end if if Trump
is is in power I understand that math
the way I do the math is similar but
it's when the when that call happens and
what position of Leverage we're in to
force Putin to to strike a deal that
restores maintains as much dignity as
possible and land for Ukraine and I
think that call is best placed when it's
fairly clear the West is willing to go
much deeper and much longer I think the
Russians respond to one thing leverage
and power and I do think the Europeans
are actually ready to step up if America
steps back I think we get quote unquote
a better deal if that call is yeah I've
just allocated another 60 70 billion
we're ready to do this Europe's stepping
up this is going to continue to be a
meat grinder for you um or we can do a
deal I think that's the call you want
whereas I think Putin gets on the phone
with Trump day one and thinks I have a
lot of Leverage here this guy wants this
guy wants out he's he's going to pull
funding uh so I think the call happens
either way I don't think it happens as
quickly in a democratic Administration
but I think we have more leverage also I
I'm a bit of a I don't want to call
myself a Warhawk but but if you talk
about the Middle
East I think there's a bad there's such
a thing as a bad piece we need to end
the war people are dying unnecessarily
let's cut a deal down
now that was the advice that many
members of parliament and Church's War
cabinet gave to him in
1939 there is a bad piece and I think I
think that uh I I mean I've said this
I've got a lot of [__] for it I think
Israel is doing our Dirty Work in the US
Israel in 6 weeks eliminated more
terrorists on the US most wanted list
than we had in the last 20 years I think
there's a greater likelihood of peace
now with the defenestration and
elimination of uh Hamas a weakening of
hesah and the taking out of a lot of
these terrorist leaders I think Middle
East peace is more
sustainable because uh Israel's gone on
the offensive in this war and I think in
America we have such a kneejerk reaction
to peace is always the answer because
we've never really been attacked you
could say 911 but we've recognized so
many blessings and no so much
Prosperity I think that our go-to is
always peace there is a bad peace and I
would argue that I'd like to see we all
want peace in the Middle East but the
question is how do we get to a sustain
peace and sometimes that I think there
is a good War so I'm more of a I'm more
on the side I think than many people on
Israel's offensive actions I think the
what they did in um Lebanon taking out
the the Hezbollah combatants was the
most prec precise anti-terrorist action
in history I think it was just
incredible and then I I see real hope
here I think after the war is over the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia I think will
normalize relations but I would argue
all the death and destruction of the whr
on both sides I don't want to say it's
never worth it for the people who incur
that type of Destruction I actually am
hopeful I think there's going to be a
more sustainable peace in the Middle
East because I think there's going to be
a winner here and I think the winner is
Israel and I think a lot of nations in
the Gulf want to normalize relationships
with Israel and I think if the Kingdom
of Saudi America I'm getting really off
topic here and Israel normalize
relations that's going to create an Iron
Dome that is more effective than their
existing Iron Dome so I'm actually quite
hopeful that this war will result in a
more sustainable peace and I'm not sure
that pieces was the answer as most
Americans feel it is I think everyone's
hoping for peace I I think that there's
there's so much um there's so much
generational hate and resentment that's
going to remain agreed in the aftermath
that um and with the way the algorithms
are I think well are we creating more
terrorists than we're killing yeah so I
think stability is probably less likely
in my view um lastly men you're writing
a book about men yeah that's exciting
yeah well why I mean you've written
books there's a hormone that supposedly
is released when women go through child
birth that creates literally Amnesia
otherwise they would never have another
one cuz it's such an unpleasant
experience for them I feel like the same
thing happens to me every time I write a
book and that is I forget how awful it
is and I sign another contract and now
I'm like I'm chapter two or three and
I'm like Jesus Christ I can't believe
I've signed up for this [__] again but
I've been thinking a lot about
struggling young men it's something I
identify with I was one of them I don't
think they're getting nearly the
recognition I think of any other special
interest group if you went into a morg
and five of the people who had died by
suicide four of them were one special
interest group you'd go there's
something wrong we need to weigh in with
programs four out of five people who
kill themselves in the US are men and a
man after divorce it's not only young
men a man after divorce becomes eight
times more likely to kill himself and we
have a society that is increasingly for
a lot of reasons sociological biological
and economic reasons a lot of men feel
useless and worthless and those are the
two words you hear most in suicide notes
so the key is how do young men get a
code you can get a code from military
religion your friends your family work
and I think that we need to recreate and
articulate a code around masculinity
what do it mean in a modern age to be a
man it's something i' I wanted to do for
a long time and it's also something that
I think I'm
hoping um can have more value than
writing about you know I don't know
[__] Facebook over and over again I
mean I think people have heard that
anyways are you hopeful for men and the
poite of men young men and struggling
with man the pat answer is well Stephen
I'm an optimist I'm not I'm a glass half
empty kind of guy I struggle with anger
and depression I have a tendency to see
things what's wrong with things um
that's the bad news the good news is I
hate my life less and less every day but
yeah I I do think that I do think the
opportunities the agency young people
have they're more socially conscious the
fact that the economy especially in
America tends to be up and to the right
I do think I think people are
recognizing I track all the inbound
emails I get I get about 80 emails from
strangers a day the number one email
that's Towing you down lately is the
following is it too late to invest in
Nvidia that's the number one question I
get on an email the number two most
frequent email is an email from a mother
a single mother worried about her sons
my daughter's in PR in Chicago my other
daughters at pen my son is in the
basement vaping and playing video
games and so I think that
we're finally having a productive
dialogue you mentioned Andrew Tate I
think that took the dialogue to a bad
place because then for a couple years
whenever you started advocating for men
there was a gag reflex that oh here's
another guy in the manosphere that's
basically thinly failed misogyny we are
finally having a productive conversation
I know you've had Richard Reeves on this
podcast he in my
opinion and to a certain extent Jordan
Peterson who deserves a lot of credit
for bringing up these issues before it
was politically correct but Richard's
work at the American insute for boys and
men has really highlighted how severe
and deep the problem is and even a lot
of feminists and people who you would
expect to push back on a discussion or
advocacy for men recognize that we can't
have an America we can't have women who
flourish if men are floundering and I
think people are finally coming around
to the fact that there's something wrong
in Mudville here and it requires
attention and resources and creative
thinking around how we can help this
group so I'm actually more optimistic
now
about our willingness to have a
productive conversation around the
plights of young men instead of a a
politically charged conversation I think
the [__] I hear online yeah you know
well now your hair is on fire where were
you for the last 2,000 years as women
and people non-whites have been I'm like
well myons I think we were there for you
I think we I think we've done stuff I
think we've tried and now it's now it's
time to
recognize a women still face huge
obstacles we should be focused on them
we should do nothing to slow the
progress but we have to acknowledge
what's going on with young men and that
it requires empathy it requires
resources it requires a productive
conversation and I'm optimistic we're
finally starting to have that
conversation my last question to you
before I go to the book is and something
that I was thinking about as you spoke
about the young kid in his basement his
mother emailing him to you her his her
daughters are doing fine but the son is
in the basement playing video games it's
a word you mentioned earlier but a word
that we had a debate about on this this
podcast a few weeks ago which which is
the conversation around pornography yeah
it's become so prevalent only fans
figures are tremendous the revenue the
profit of that company um with the
decline of sex amongst young men having
sex later and later and less and less
with it becoming harder and harder to
find a partner pornography is now a
booming industry a bigger industry than
ever before one thing I learned which I
didn't realize recently is that women
get addicted to pornography and men and
I didn't say that in the debate so I
just wanted to say that because the top
comment on the debate video was by the
way we as women we I'm I have a
pornography addiction too and actually a
really good friend of mine sent me a
seven minute voice note saying I've just
listened to the debate I was really
annoyed because there was two women sat
there and no one mentioned the addiction
that people like me have to pornography
and my friend said to me and she's
spoken about it now publicly that she
had a pornography addiction but going
back to the point um pornography
MH should that kid in the basement be
watching
pornography well there should and there
there there is okay so he is watching
pornography and a lot of it and most of
the research shows that a small number
of people consume a disproportionate
amount of
porn and it isn't necessarily it's like
drinking
or consuming THC porn in moderation I
think I I don't think is necessarily an
evil I'm not like project 2025 is
talking about banning pornography and I
actually think only fans is sort of an
interesting economic Innovation I like
the fact fact that a lot of young people
are making a lot of money
doing I mean I'm a little bit torn on it
the the point you're getting to is a
larger point and that is one of the
biggest threats to young men is that the
most talented deepest resource companies
in history are trying to convince people
specifically young men they can have a
reasonable fact simile of life on a
screen with an algorithm you don't need
friends go to Reddit and Discord and
find people who are specifically
interested in the weird thing you're
interested in right you don't have to
try and make plans with a kid at high
school after you don't have to try and
make friends you I don't I remember it
was hard to make friends but once you
made them the barriers of exit were
strong we had a posy of Five Guys two or
three of us didn't like each other but
we were friends we were in the group
together you don't need that now you got
Reddit in Discord you don't need to go
through the humiliation of going on
Linkin and trying to interview and
showing up for work on time and not
getting high at night because you got to
get up at 8: in the morning you have
just trade stocks or crypto on Robin
Hood or coinbase right and that's where
I really hate the manosphere is all this
[__] just take my crypto course to
learn how to make money and get a
supercar like me I mean that is just
pure theft in my view you don't need to
go through the
humiliation the endurance of showering
getting in shape having a plan learning
humor going to bars going through the
rejection of online dating of trying to
approach train women and make them feel
safe while expressing romantic interest
romantic comedies are 2 hours not 15
minutes for a reason this [__] is hard
why do that when you have porn so when I
coach young men one of the first things
I say is look I'm not going to lecture
you I I consume porn right but try and
modulate it because the reason I have
the most rewarding thing in my life
which is my boys and raising them with a
competent partner is not because I had
this Vision that I'd be a great dad
someday or I knew what that reward was
you don't know what it is you don't know
what it is until it happens it's because
I saw a woman at the Raleigh Hotel pool
and I really wanted to have sex with her
I wasn't looking at her and think you
know what this woman's going to be great
at raising children This Woman's going
to be great at buying homes distressed
real estate in Florida that creates cash
flow for us and our family this person I
just get the sense she's a really high
character person and my partner is all
of those things I just desperately
wanted to have sex with her and then we
started having sex and then we decided
we liked hanging out together and then
before I knew it we were spending all of
our time together and then before I knew
it we decided to move in together and
then we got a dog and started playing
house and here I am engaging in what is
the most rewarding thing I have ever
engaged in the Mojo to have sex is super
important the only reason I graduated
from UCLA is because occasionally I go
on campus thinking I meet might meet a
strange woman to have sex with otherwise
I don't think I would have graduated I
never would have gone on campus and I
know how ridiculous that sounds but sex
is a huge motivator and what I would say
to men is you got to have that drive to
have sex with women is a wonderful thing
that's one of the reasons we're on this
planet and the more you engage in porn
and start believing that that is a
reasonable fact simile of real sex
you're not you're going to lose your
mojo you're going to lose your desire to
work out your desire to be attractive be
you know if I could give advice to young
men and young women to young men is
pretty simple be the guy you'd want to
have sex with get your [__] together you
don't have to be rich but have a plan
hit the gym every once in a while dress
well smell nice for God's sakes figure
out a way to make a woman laugh take
risks take chances endure rejection
that's okay if you approach a woman and
she's not interested in you you're both
going to be you're both going to be fine
you have to have that Mojo and the
advice I give to young woman is the
second coffee can't tell a woman to have
higher to lower standards
but every song and every piece of social
media is basically telling women oh he
did this walk right out of that door you
don't need that
man it's like okay and and now what
right I think there's so much loneliness
and so what I coach young women around
around dating is like oh I met him he
was okay like if you if you survey
married couples who've been married
longer than 30 years 3/4 of them say one
was much more interested than the other
in the beginning and it was it was it
was the man men are much less choosy
than women cuz the downside of sex is
much smaller for us cuz we don't get
pregnant so they're much choosier so
what a man needs is an environment to
demonstrate Excellence I found out he
was
kind uh he was great at work he was
great with clients I started getting
attracted to him he was funny I like the
way he smelled but where does a man have
an opportunity to demonstrate Excellence
they're not going to school they're not
going into work young people aren't
drinking as much by the way you've
probably had humor hubman and ATA I
think young people need to drink more I
don't see drunkenness I see togetherness
drink more alcohol yeah drink more I
think they need to get out and drink
more yeah my my advice to young people
is to go out and drink more and make a
series of bad decisions and might payoff
I think that we need we need more
togetherness more people more more sex
uh and more um more Random
Encounters and absolutely people need to
be in the company of strangers more and
more and I think young men are
sequestering we're turning into a
different species of
asexual socially isolated lonely people
who become shitty citizens and when
women don't have a romantic relationship
they reinvest in work and their friends
when men don't have a relationship they
tend to just go
down um a rabbit hole back to your
original question modulate everything
you do you drink too much alcohol it's
going to get in the way of your life
you're smoking too much pot it's going
to get in the way of your life you're
consuming too much porn it's going to
reduce your desire to take the risk and
go out and meet somebody or put in
another
way you porn is a distant second to your
porn get out there and start making your
own porn and you might find that you
fall in love establish the most
meaningful thing in life and that is a
deep meaningful relationship with
someone you want to build a family with
and a lot of times for men that starts
with sex and there's nothing wrong with
that if you're an entrepreneur you're
probably going to want to listen to this
it's a message from one of our sponsors
on this podcast which is LinkedIn if
you've listened to me on this podcast
for a while now you'll know that I've
been on a bit of an evolution as a
business owner and entrepreneur and one
of those Evolutions that has become
clearer and clearer as I've matured is
that the single most important thing in
building a business in building a
company is hiring the definition of the
word company is actually group of people
and that is the first responsibility and
job that any entrepreneur has and should
focus on but surprisingly most don't
about 80% of my team have been hired
from LinkedIn and I think there's very
few platforms if any in the world that
could give you that diversity of
candidate with that much information and
data on their profiles it usually costs
money but for the entrepreneurs that are
listening to me I've got you a free job
ad post for your company on LinkedIn
just go to linkedin.com
doac to post your free job ad today
that's link linkedin.com doac terms and
conditions
apply Scott the closing tradition we
have on this podcast is maybe somewhat
linked to what you just said and it's um
funnily enough it's been left by the CEO
of Google the former CEO Eric Schmidt I
know Eric he's been on my pod guy it's
gonna see I already don't like this it's
going to be some very thoughtful
question about the future or the
environment or something well it kind of
links to what we were just talking about
which is the question is what are you
scared about with AI and our
future the fears around
AI that it's sentient and decides in a
millisecond that we're all a nuisance
and to kill us uh misinformation is a
big threat polarization weaponization of
our elections income inequality those
are all real threats I think the biggest
threat of AI is loneliness and that
is I don't know if you've seen any of
these AI Bots oh yeah but if I'm a Young
Man I feel rejected online in online
dating where the average the man of
average attractiveness in online dating
has to swipe right 200 times to get a
coffee and four of those five coffees
will ghost me so I have to connect swipe
right a thousand times to get one coffee
and then I have these AI Bots that are
very
attractive and increasingly
lifelike uh I worry that uh AI is going
to create a series of fake relationship
ships that reduce our desire to make
real
friends take real risks I think ai's
biggest threat is
loneliness and I one in seven men don't
have a single friend one in four men
can't name a best friend and I think AI
is going to create too many reasonable
fact similes of relationships I think
the biggest threat of AI is loneliness
it's so interesting how technology over
the last like 10 years but even in this
moment has made all of our human desires
not only go to a screen but it's made
them friction free and like you said
earlier like low calorie so I was just
thinking about like social networking
made staying in touch with my friends
easy but shallow and dating apps made
like uh or or pornography has made
sex seem easy but it's not sex it's not
the real thing and in the context of AI
for me these relationships it's
difficult to have a relationship with my
partner it's diff because we argue and
we clash and then she doesn't she
interrupts me and I interrupt her and we
F and IU was three hours trying to you
know get my point be feel seen and heard
with AI I can have a relationship she
loves you it's never going to argue with
me so easy but not the real thing and
this is the world I think we we're
slowly heading towards which is causes
me some concern I guess is that it's
going to be easy but it's not going to
be the real
thing look you know this with your
partner there's just
moments you have with your your mates
moments you have with your
parents moments you have
with a romantic partner and then
ultimately moments you'll have with your
children that's the whole shooting match
anything anything else is just Memorex
it's just not it's not the same and also
when we sequester from one
another uh we become more prone to
conspiracy theory we're less empathetic
to one
another uh yeah I think I think the the
the biggest threat is political the
second biggest threat is political
extremism from both sides but I think
the the thing that ails us is is
loneliness because tech companies are
trying to convince us you don't need to
go through that rejection or that hard
work I'll give you a reasonable fact s
we have a relationship on a
screen there's value in all the friction
in life isn't there it seems raising
kids or having relationships going out
and getting rejected putting the perfume
on and I sometimes think that you know
we're choosing comfort and anything that
gets rid of the friction without
realizing that all the friction I've
described there's huge value in like
going to the gym there's huge value in
that
um but technology and we're in a
technology Revolution is is going to
offer us a nice lowcost substitute for
that friction in the form of you know
all these things the only thing I can
promise young people is a certain amount
of joy and tragedy in their life and a
lot of that that ratio is about the
circumstances they're born in and how
they approach life but the only other
thing I can promise promise them is
anything wonderful in their
life is super [__] hard that's it a
good relationship making money the only
thing I can guarantee you and anything
that's really rewarding is it's going to
be really
hard and so it should be as it should be
yeah Scott thank you so much I the
biggest fan of this book your latest
book the algebra of wealth so much so
that I I've endorsed it on the front
there um but it's I mean every time you
come on you blur this thing that's how
big time you are that's humiliating oh
my God you're right on the front did you
not know I was in the front of your book
dude my publisher decides all this [__]
that's somewhat humiliating that a guy
30 years younger than me is on the cover
of my
book my best blurb though is on my last
book I had Elon Musk he said uh an
insufferable num skull he said that
about me so I said Put it on the book
put it on the book thanks for that man
no worries thank you so much for all
that you do Scott and um we shall see
about your prediction and what happens
over the over the coming week with the
American election but either way I'd
love to chat again to you soon because
you're so vastly wise and unbelievably
remarkable um communicator and
Storyteller in a way that just grips
people so thank you for teaching me
everything you've taught me everybody
needs to go get this book everybody
needs to go listen to your podcast where
I've been closely following all of your
analysis on the election I saw you you
coming out and endorsing CA which is why
I reached out um originally but I'll
link your podcast below and also the
pivot podcast for everyone to go and
have a listen if they want to hear more
from you Scott thank you thank you
Stephen congrats on all your success
appreciate it thank you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Applause]
what what the actual [__] I mean thank
you this is great I almost slipped and
broke a hip there don't do that in my
age Jesus happy birthday I'm
shaking oh my God this is so lovely and
entirely inappropriate and unexpected
and
frightening thank you so much you know
I'm 50 yeah oh my God Y how is your
birthday this Sunday so
yeah thank you this is great wow
birth isn't this cool every single
conversation I have here on the DI of Co
at the very end of it you'll know I ask
the guest to leave a question in the
Diary of a CEO and what we've done is
we've turned every single question
written in the Diary of a CEO into these
conversation cards that you can play at
home so you've got every guest we've
ever had their question and on the back
of it if you scan that QR code you get
to watch the person who answered that
question we're finally revealing all of
the questions and the people that
answered the question the brand new
version two updated conversation cards
are out right now at Theon conversation
cards.com they've sold out twice
instantaneously so if you are interested
in getting hold of some limited edition
conversation cards I really really
recommend acting quickly
[Music]